Revise authorization topic (#45195)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization.md

* [Authorization of CertificateSigningRequests](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/#authorization)
  * **approve** verb for CertificateSigningRequests, and **update** for revisions to existing approvals
* [RBAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#privilege-escalation-prevention-and-bootstrapping)
  * **bind** and **escalate** verbs on `roles` and `clusterroles` resources in the `rbac.authorization.k8s.io` API group.

## Authorization context

Kubernetes expects attributes that are common to REST API requests. This means
that Kubernetes authorization works with existing organization-wide or
cloud-provider-wide access control systems which may handle other APIs besides
the Kubernetes API.

## Authorization modes {#authorization-modules}

The Kubernetes API server may authorize a request using one of several authorization modes:

`AlwaysAllow`
: This mode allows all requests, which brings [security risks](#warning-always-allow). Use this authorization mode only if you do not require authorization for your API requests (for example, for testing).

`AlwaysDeny`
: This mode blocks all requests. Use this authorization mode only for testing.

> `ABAC` ([attribute-based access control](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/))

Reviewer: ABAC should not been formatted as code, I think.

Author: The other modes are all formatted as teletype, because these are specific strings you set. See for example `Node` on line 132.

Author: If I change it, I'd change all of them and not just ABAC.

Author: BTW, this might be easier to review by commit. Have a look at the commit that this line changed in; it's a lot easier to read IMO.

  * In this mode, Kubernetes uses the `rbac.authorization.k8s.io` API group to drive authorization decisions, allowing you to dynamically configure permission policies through the Kubernetes API.

`Node`
: A special-purpose authorization mode that grants permissions to kubelets based on the pods they are scheduled to run. To learn more about the Node authorization mode, see [Node Authorization](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/node/).

`Webhook`
: Kubernetes [webhook mode](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/) for authorization makes a synchronous HTTP callout, blocking the request until the remote HTTP service responds to the query.You can write your own software to handle the callout, or use solutions from the ecosystem.

<a id="warning-always-allow" />

{{< warning >}}
Enabling the `AlwaysAllow` mode bypasses authorization; do not use this on a cluster where
you do not trust **all** potential API clients, including the workloads that you run.

You should not use the `AlwaysAllow` mode on a Kubernetes cluster where the API server
is reachable from the public internet.
{{< /warning >}}

You can configure the Kubernetes API server's authorizer chain using

> either a command line setting or, as an alpha feature, using a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
either a command line setting or, as a beta feature, using a
```
beta, enabled by default in 1.30

Author: We can make that change after v1.30 is released (not before).

Author: (done)

configuration file.

### Command line authorization mode configuration {#using-flags-for-your-authorization-module}

> You must set a command line argument to the API server, to indicate which authorizationmode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must set a command line argument to the API server, to indicate which authorization mode
```

the API server should use.

> You can use the following modes:

Author: “flags” is a confusing term for people who don't code in Go. To the wider world of IT, flags usually pecify _boolean_ values. Golang has a different convention, but we can't assume the reader is a Go coder.

> You can use the following modes:

Reviewer: Actually, the examples below are command line flags or options. I agree to @ritazh. It is not a Go thing. It is a k8s convention.

> You can use the following modes:

Author: Because "flags” is a confusing term for people who don't code in Go, I've been working to amend the docs so that they are more widely understood, matching common usage in the world of IT. See https://superuser.com/a/1070071 for an example.

Kubernetes has copied Go's convention here, but I'm asserting it's an unhelpful convention. Early on, people who used Kubernetes were often Go coders, so contributors didn't notice.

* `--authorization-mode=ABAC` (Attribute-based access control mode)
* `--authorization-mode=RBAC` (Role-based access control mode)
* `--authorization-mode=Node` (Node authorizer)
* `--authorization-mode=Webhook` (Webhook authorization mode)
* `--authorization-mode=AlwaysAllow` (always allows requests; carries [security risks](#warning-always-allow))
* `--authorization-mode=AlwaysDeny` (always denies requests)

You can choose more than one authorization mode; for example:
`--authorization-mode=Node,Webhook`

Kubernetes checks authorization modules based on the order that you specify them
on the API server's command line, so an earlier module has higher priority to allow
or deny a request.

For more information on command line arguments to the API server, read the
[`kube-apiserver` reference](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/).

### Configuring the API Server using an authorization config file

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.29" >}}

> In order to customise the authorizer chain using a configuration file,

Reviewer 2: I thought I updated the feature-state above to:
state=“beta” for_k8s_version=“v1.30”

Author: Until v1.30 is released, these **are** the docs for v1.29

Author: v1.30 is released now, and I've rebased

> you need to enable the `StructuredAuthorizationConfiguration`

Reviewer 2: only need to manually enable for 1.29 and it’s enabled by default in 1.30

Author: Until v1.30 is released, these **are** the docs for v1.29

Author: v1.30 is released now, and I've rebased

via a local file allows you to define authorization chains with multiple
webhooks. Authorization chain elements can have well-defined parameters
that validate requests in a certain order; this enables fine grained
control - such as explicit Deny on failures.

In order to customise the authorizer chain, you need to enable the
`StructuredAuthorizationConfiguration` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/).
Setting both `--authorization-config` path and configuring an authorization
webhook using the `--authorization-mode` and `--authorization-webhook-*`
command line arguments is not allowed. If you try this, there will be an error
on startup, and the API server does not run.

Note: When the feature is enabled, setting both `--authorization-config` and
configuring an authorization webhook using the `--authorization-mode` and
`--authorization-webhook-*` command line flags is not allowed. If done, there
will be an error and API Server would exit right away.
{{< note >}}
When configuring the authorizer chain using a configuration file, make sure all the
API server replicas have the same configuration file contents available locally.

{{< caution >}}

> While the feature is in Alpha/Beta, there is no change if you want to keep on

Reviewer 2: Can you please rebase on top of the current? I pusher https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/45138 with verbiage about the command line will continue to work for all future k8s versions

Author: Will do.

Reviewer 2: Same with text about upgrade and taking a backup. we should keep that. PTAL https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/45138

Author: _This_ PR isn't the place to merge with https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/45138

What I can do instead: help with combining these changes into _dev-1.30_.

We can also not change this page until the v1.30 release, and then rebase this PR on top of _main_. I'd prefer not to do that, but we can.

Reviewer 2: If this PR is meant for 1.29 updates, then I think there is value in adding. because we did get questions about if command line flags will go away in the future:
> If you want to keep using command line flags to configure authorization instead of a configuration file, those will continue to work as-is.

Author: I'll reword that, but yes, let's make that point.

Author: v1.30 is released now, and I've rebased; also I reworded.

 * **ABAC** - Attribute-based access control (ABAC) defines an access control paradigm whereby access rights are granted to users through the use of policies which combine attributes together. The policies can use any type of attributes (user attributes, resource attributes, object, environment attributes, etc). To learn more about using the ABAC mode, see [ABAC Mode](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/).
 * **RBAC** - Role-based access control (RBAC) is a method of regulating access to computer or network resources based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise. In this context, access is the ability of an individual user to perform a specific task, such as view, create, or modify a file. To learn more about using the RBAC mode, see [RBAC Mode](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)
   * When specified RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) uses the `rbac.authorization.k8s.io` API group to drive authorization decisions, allowing admins to dynamically configure permission policies through the Kubernetes API.
   * To enable RBAC, start the apiserver with `--authorization-mode=RBAC`.

>  * **Webhook** - A WebHook is an HTTP callback: an HTTP POST that occurs when something happens; a simple event-notification via HTTP POST. A web application implementing WebHooks will POST a message to a URL when certain things happen. To learn more about using the Webhook mode, see [Webhook Mode](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/).

Author: Merged with the other list of authz modes.

> #### Checking API Access

Author: This section is moved later in the page, not removed outright.

your policies include:
* `--authorization-mode=ABAC` (Attribute-based access control mode)
* `--authorization-mode=RBAC` (Role-based access control mode)
* `--authorization-mode=Webhook` (Webhook authorization mode)
* `--authorization-mode=Node` (Node authorizer)
* `--authorization-mode=AlwaysDeny` (always denies requests)
* `--authorization-mode=AlwaysAllow` (always allows requests; carries security risks)

The following flags can be used:
You can choose more than one authorization mode; for example:
`--authorization-mode=Node,Webhook`

  * `--authorization-mode=ABAC` Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) mode allows you to configure policies using local files.
  * `--authorization-mode=RBAC` Role-based access control (RBAC) mode allows you to create and store policies using the Kubernetes API.
  * `--authorization-mode=Webhook` WebHook is an HTTP callback mode that allows you to manage authorization using a remote REST endpoint.
  * `--authorization-mode=Node` Node authorization is a special-purpose authorization mode that specifically authorizes API requests made by kubelets.
  * `--authorization-mode=AlwaysDeny` This flag blocks all requests. Use this flag only for testing.

>   * `--authorization-mode=AlwaysAllow` This flag allows all requests. Use this flag only if you do not require authorization for your API requests.

Author: Merged with the other list of authz modes.

      failurePolicy: NoOpinion
      connectionInfo:
        type: InClusterConfig
{{< /highlight >}}

## Privilege escalation via workload creation or edits {#privilege-escalation-via-pod-creation}

Users who can create/edit pods in a namespace, either directly or through an object that
enables indirect [workload management](/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/), may be
able to escalate their privileges in that namespace. The potential routes to privilege
escalation include Kubernetes [API extensions](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/#api-extensions)
and their associated {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="controller" text="controllers" >}}.

{{< caution >}}

> As a cluster administrators, take care when granting access to create or edit workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, use caution when granting access to create or edit workloads.
```
